Ref docs for Projections (#2256)
lagom/lagom: docs/manual/scala/guide/cluster/Projections.md

# Projections

> In Lagom, projections are a processes consuming from a Persistent Entity Journal and handling each event via a [[read side table|ReadSide]] or emiting it into a broker topic via a [[`TopicProducer`|MessageBrokerApi#Implementing-a-topic]]. Here, Projections only refer to `ReadSideProcessors` and `TopicProducer`'s' (not Broker subscribers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Lagom, projections are processes consuming from a Persistent Entity Journal and handling each event via a [[read side table|ReadSide]] or emitting it into a broker topic via a [[`TopicProducer`|MessageBrokerApi#Implementing-a-topic]]. Here, Projections only refer to `ReadSideProcessors` and `TopicProducer`'s' (not Broker subscribers).
```

> Projections are a distributed process. Lagom takes care to handle as many instances of your projection as [[shards|ReadSide#Event-tags]] on your journal and then distribute those instances around the cluster so the load is balanced. By default the multiple instances of your projection will be started but you can opt out from that behavior using the setting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lagom takes care to handle as many instances of your projection as [[shards|ReadSide#Event-tags]] on your journal and then distribute those instances around the cluster so the load is balanced. By default, the multiple instances of your projection will be started but you can opt-out from that behavior using the setting:
```

```
lagom.projection {
  # when enabled, read-side processors and topic producers start at bootstrap
  # when disabled, read-side processors and topic producers are added to projection registry but won't start
  # until a user explicitly sends a request to start it.
  # TODO: add link to Projection API
  auto-start.enabled = true
}

> ```

Reviewer: same as above

## Projection status

Once up and running, you may query the state of your projections to ensure all the instances are up and running. You can also request a particular projection to stop or even a particular instance (aka worker) in a projection to stop. 

Stopping and starting all the workers or a single worker of a projection is an asynchronous operation. Imagine we had a `ReadSideProcessor` called  `users-by-name` that is reading the journal of a `Users` persistent entity and storing data into a SQL table. To stop that projection we would request the status of all workers to become `Stopped`. This request will propagate across the cluster and each node will make sure that any worker running locally that is part of the `users-by-name` projections is stopped. As workers switch from `Started` to `Stopped` they report back and we can `observe` their new status.

To request and modify the status of your projections simply use the `projections` instance provided by any of the [[`Components`|ScalaComponents]] that create projections (any persistence implementation or broker API implementation).

> The _requested status_ is a volatile, in-memory value but it is replicated across your cluster. Only when the whole cluster is restarted you may have to request a particular status again. Also, because of the replicated nature, the _requested status_ may be overwriten by multiple nodes on your cluster at the same time. The implementation is such that [last writer wins](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/distributed-data.html#data-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _requested status_ is a volatile, in-memory value but it is replicated across your cluster. Only when the whole cluster is restarted you may have to request a particular status again. Also, because of its replicated nature, the _requested status_ may be overwritten by multiple nodes on your cluster at the same time. The implementation is such that the [last writer wins](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/distributed-data.html#data-types).
```

When a new instance of a projection worker is created the rules to decide its status are:

* if there's worker requested status, use it; if not
* use the default value in `application.conf`

> Because the _requested status_ is a distributed, in-memory value, there is an edge case you will have to consider when you need a worker to be stopped. When starting a new node and having that node join a n existing cluster, it is possible that some workers are spawned in the node before the _requested status_ value is received from the peer nodes. In that case, the default `lagom.projection.auto-start.enabled` will be used to decide if the spanwed worker should be stopped or started. If your default is `enabled = true` but the in-memory, replicated value is `Stopped` then there's a race condition and you could observe your worker _start-and-then-stop_. To prevent the  _start-and-then-stop_ behavior, opt out of `lagom.projection.auto-start.enabled = true` and always handle worker startup using the methods `startAllWorkers`/`startWorker` on the `Projections`AP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the _requested status_ is a distributed, in-memory value, there is an edge case you will have to consider when you need a worker to be stopped. When starting a new node and having that node join an existing cluster, it is possible that some workers are spawned in the node before the _requested status_ value is received from the peer nodes. In that case, the default `lagom.projection.auto-start.enabled` will be used to decide if the spawned worker should be stopped or started. If your default is `enabled = true` but the in-memory, replicated value is `Stopped` then there's a race condition and you could observe your worker _start-and-then-stop_. To prevent the  _start-and-then-stop_ behavior, opt-out of `lagom.projection.auto-start.enabled = true` and always handle worker startup using the methods `startAllWorkers`/`startWorker` on the `Projections` API.
```
